Add draft documentation for install flux command (#1085)
weaveworks/eksctl: site/content/usage/experimental/01-gitops.md

---
title: "GitOps"
weight: 10
url: usage/experimental/gitops-flux
---

## GitOps

> [GitOps][gitops] is a way to do Kubernetes cluster management and application delivery. It works by using Git as a single source

Reviewer: I think we cannot talk about cluster management yet.

Author: I just copied this from https://www.weave.works/technologies/gitops/ 

What do you think it should say instead?

Reviewer: Probably best to remove mentions from this paragraph:

> [GitOps][gitops] is a way to do Kubernetes application delivery. It works by using Git as a single source
> of truth for Kubernetes resources. With Git at the center of your delivery pipelines, developers
> can make pull requests to accelerate and simplify application deployments and operations tasks to Kubernetes.

of truth for declarative infrastructure and applications. With Git at the center of your delivery pipelines, developers
can make pull requests to accelerate and simplify application deployments and operations tasks to Kubernetes.

`eksctl` provides an easy way to set up gitops in an existing cluster with the `eksctl install flux` command.

[gitops]: https://www.weave.works/technologies/gitops/

### Installing Flux

> > This is an experimental feature. To enable it, set the environment variable `EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true`.

Reviewer: I'd add `**NOTE:**` and clarify that command name, flags and behaviour may change.

> Installing flux on the cluster is the first step towards a gitops workflow. To install it, you need an empty repo and

Reviewer: I think we should we capitalise Flux?

---
title: "GitOps"
weight: 10
url: usage/experimental/gitops-flux
---

## GitOps

[GitOps][gitops] is a way to do Kubernetes application delivery. It works by using Git as a single source of truth for
Kubernetes resources. With Git at the center of your delivery pipelines, developers can make pull requests to accelerate
and simplify application deployments and operations tasks to Kubernetes.

`eksctl` provides an easy way to set up gitops in an existing cluster with the `eksctl install flux` command.

[gitops]: https://www.weave.works/technologies/gitops/

### Installing Flux

> This is an experimental feature. To enable it, set the environment variable `EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true`. 
> Experimental features are not stable and their command name and flags may change.

> Installing Flux on the cluster is the first step towards a gitops workflow. To install it, you need an empty repo and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing Flux on the cluster is the first step towards a gitops workflow. To install it, you need a Git repository and
```

an existing cluster. Then run the following command:

```
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux --name <cluster_name> --region <region> --git-url=<git_repo> --git-email=<git_user_email>
```

Or use a config file:
```bash

> EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux -f examples/01-simple-cluster.yaml --git-url=git@github.com:weaveworks/cluster-1-gitops.git --git-email=johndoe+flux@weave.works

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we use the same template arguments here? (e.g. `<region>`).

Also, shouldn't we use the `bash` syntax-highlighting in the previous command?

Author: The region is specified in the config file.

I didn't ad the bash highlighting before because goland was hinting that that line is actually not bash. It turns out that it does a better job at highlighting the right thing without it in that case.

 Author: Flux <johndoe+flux@weave.works>
 6 files changed, 255 insertions(+)
 create mode 100644 flux/flux-account.yaml
 create mode 100644 flux/flux-deployment.yaml
 create mode 100644 flux/flux-secret.yaml
 create mode 100644 flux/memcache-dep.yaml
 create mode 100644 flux/memcache-svc.yaml
 create mode 100644 flux/namespace.yaml
Counting objects: 9, done.
Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (9/9), done.
Writing objects: 100% (9/9), 3.52 KiB | 1.17 MiB/s, done.
Total 9 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
To github.com:weaveworks/flux-test-2.git
   d41f36d..4ff0d8f  master -> master
[ℹ]  Flux will operate properly only once it has SSH access to: git@github.com:weaveworks/flux-test-2.git
[ℹ]  please add the following Flux public SSH key to your repository:
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQCn9l5vVmcRbjZJmBG4GcYTK4w+8NjfMHOUr8W1w7E+PX8ono/cXsr9yohIPRUGKT1JSMXqwOTNNqYQoL6qbS7hGzOdO/IPW3JN1qvbBXLjBB8jo3op4KvudMuImBiE0dPB/mITk43t3WNbzZ33xlS9emtQdQlIno8HTFthohljcW5tUzdpC6Fv43fqt1EdHb8NtJz5oFbYbPuRf7swH0raxrhqKs4HW8VDVVqkROG2i0drg8rSalICbJX1YB3tgMYvP//f9uhWskXh5kuetS541I9gqtJD29pFibYQ1GwjfyAvkPBHTmumXdvb111111JWnfiiT7zCrdjYIEUt/9

```

> At this point Flux should already be installed in the specified cluster. 

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth mentioning (even if it's redundant) that users to install the ssh key. Maybe even before the example listing is presented.

```bash
$ kubectl get pods --namespace flux
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
flux-699cc7f4cb-9qc45      1/1     Running   0          29m
memcached-958f745c-qdfgz   1/1     Running   0          29m
```

To finish the installation, Flux needs access to the repository. Add the ssh key to the Github Deploy keys in your
repository's settings.

### Adding a workload

To deploy a new workload on the cluster using GitOps just add a kubernetes manifest to the repository and push it to the

> remote. After a few minutes you should see the resources appearing in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: I think that _push it to the remote_ is redundant.

Kubernetes resources. With Git at the center of your delivery pipelines, developers can make pull requests to accelerate
and simplify application deployments and operations tasks to Kubernetes.

`eksctl` provides an easy way to set up gitops in an existing cluster with the `eksctl install flux` command.

[gitops]: https://www.weave.works/technologies/gitops/

### Installing Flux

> This is an experimental feature. To enable it, set the environment variable `EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true`. 
> Experimental features are not stable and their command name and flags may change.

Installing Flux on the cluster is the first step towards a gitops workflow. To install it, you need a Git repository 
and an existing cluster. Then run the following command:

```bash
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux --name <cluster_name> --region <region> --git-url=<git_repo> --git-email=<git_user_email>
```

Or use a config file:
```bash
EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux -f examples/01-simple-cluster.yaml --git-url=git@github.com:weaveworks/cluster-1-gitops.git --git-email=johndoe+flux@weave.works
```

Full example:

```bash

> EKSCTL_EXPERIMENTAL=true eksctl install flux --name cluster-1 --region eu-west-2 --git-url=git@github.com:weaveworks/cluster-1-gitops.git --git-email=johndoe+flux@weave.works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Or rather, we should use this line and replace the `git@github.com:weaveworks/flux-test-2.git` (which is an odd name) in the logs.

Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (9/9), done.
Writing objects: 100% (9/9), 3.52 KiB | 1.17 MiB/s, done.
Total 9 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
To github.com:weaveworks/flux-test-2.git
   d41f36d..4ff0d8f  master -> master
[ℹ]  Flux will operate properly only once it has SSH access to: git@github.com:weaveworks/flux-test-2.git
[ℹ]  please add the following Flux public SSH key to your repository:
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQCn9l5vVmcRbjZJmBG4GcYTK4w+8NjfMHOUr8W1w7E+PX8ono/cXsr9yohIPRUGKT1JSMXqwOTNNqYQoL6qbS7hGzOdO/IPW3JN1qvbBXLjBB8jo3op4KvudMuImBiE0dPB/mITk43t3WNbzZ33xlS9emtQdQlIno8HTFthohljcW5tUzdpC6Fv43fqt1EdHb8NtJz5oFbYbPuRf7swH0raxrhqKs4HW8VDVVqkROG2i0drg8rSalICbJX1YB3tgMYvP//f9uhWskXh5kuetS541I9gqtJD29pFibYQ1GwjfyAvkPBHTmumXdvb111111JWnfiiT7zCrdjYIEUt/9

```

At this point Flux should already be installed in the specified cluster. The only thing left to do would be to install
the SSH key. 

```bash
$ kubectl get pods --namespace flux
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
flux-699cc7f4cb-9qc45      1/1     Running   0          29m
memcached-958f745c-qdfgz   1/1     Running   0          29m
```

> To finish the installation, Flux needs access to the repository. Add the ssh key to the Github Deploy keys in your

Reviewer 2: The Git repo doesn't necessarily need to be in GitHub
